what's going on everybody Josh pook here
and in today's video we are going to be
looking at an AI researcher agent this
is a free open- source alternative to
perplexity it is called GPT researcher
say goodbye to hours of research say
hello to GPT researcher I'm going to
show you how you can self-host it let's
dive right into
[Music]
it all right guys so some of you guys
may have seen some of my other videos
and I've done videos on a lot of
different perplexity Alternatives so
I've done videos on uh open perplex I've
done videos on local search I've done
videos on morphic I've done videos on
llm answer engine I've done videos on
perlex we've covered a lot of different
perplexity Alternatives and I'll leave
links to these videos as well down below
so if you are looking for open source
gxy Alternatives you can check some of
those out but in today's video we're
going to be looking at GPT researcher
and here is their website uh you can
check it out all links will be linked
down below they claim to be the number
one open- source AI research agent
elevate your application capabilities
with the leading autonomous specialized
research agent built for multi-agent
Frameworks delivering real-time accurate
and factual results at speed over 1
million downloads and hundreds of
contributions worldwide for support for
all llms use any search engine research
local documents generate long reports
export to any format multi-agent support
and one of the reasons I decided to do
an video on this tool is because if we
look at the example here you'll see that
it's querying the gpg researcher agent
and it's pulling a bunch of different
sources and deploying a few different
agents and it looks like it's doing some
pretty extensive research and then it's
going to provide the output in very
quickly that's what kind of stood out to
me with this tool opposed from some of
the other open source researching uh
perplex the Alternatives we covered on
here this seems more of like a
researching Powerhouse that's the angle
that they're going for all right so GPT
researcher is an autonomous agent
designed for comprehensive online
research on a variety of tasks the agent
can produce detailed factual and
unbiased research reports with
customization options for focusing on
relevant resources and outlines so was
inspired by the recent plan and solve
and rag papers which I'll leave links to
down below so you can check these out if
you'd like GPT researcher addresses
issues of misinformation speed
determinism and reliability offering a
more stable performance and increased
speed to paralyzed agent work opposed to
synchronous operations so the
architecture the main idea is to run
planner and execution agents whereas the
planner generates questions to research
and the execution agent seeks the most
related information based on each
generated research questions so similar
to perplexity finally the planner agent
filters and Aggregates all related
information and creates a research
report a few features generates research
outlines resources and lessons reports
with local documents and web sources and
generate long and detailed research
reports over 2K words Aggregates over 20
web sources per research to form
objective and factual conclusions
includes both lightweight HTML CSS JS
and production ready nextjs plus tailin
uxui okay so let's get into the actual
install of this so there's a couple
different ways to install you could use
Docker you could use pip or just going
to do the uh basic install here so
you're going to need python 3.11 or
later so you can go here and download it
if needed and then you're going to
download the project and navigate to its
directory so you're going to get clone
the repo right here and then CD into GPT
researcher so I actually already did
that so once you do this you can set up
your environment variables so you can
either do code dot to open it up in vs
code like so and you'll see um there
will be a
env. example and you can just either um
change the name or copy it then change
the name and then put your uh open AI
API key here and you're also going to
need a Tav API key okay or you could
just export it to uh run these commands
to export it to your environment
variables in your OS either way works
now tavali search API is a search engine
specifically optimized for llms and rag
aimed at efficient quick and persistent
search results now it says here the
default llm is GPT for open AI but you
can use any llama or any model pretty
much such as Claude o llama Gemini I
mistro you can visit the L documentation
right here I'll leave a link to the docs
down below and same thing for the search
retriever the default is Tav but you can
use things like Duck ducko Google Bing
search API serper search X archive even
right so pretty cool stuff um you can
visit the retriever documentation right
here um Tav is good I believe they give
you a bunch uh a decent amount of free
credits to start off so you can pretty
much use it for free if you want to test
it out or if you want to try of the
other ones you can do so okay once you
once you do that you're going to want to
uh install the requirements so for me I
did so in a virtual environment so I
just set up a virtual environment right
here you can do python DM and then venv
and then I just named it my EnV and then
I just activated it right here which is
this script if you're on Windows if you
need help searching setting up a virtual
environment just ask chat gbt you could
use this um this way right here you
could also use cond of course and then
once you do that you're just going to
run pip install D r- requirements.txt to
install all the different requirements
right here and then once that's done
you're going to run this command python
DM uvi corn Main and then colon app--
reload right here this is going to start
the fast API and it's going to start the
agent on Local Host Port 8000 so now I'm
on Local Host 8000 and you can see here
we got it set set up all right so I
could go ahead and ask it a query right
here so I'm going to ask it uh to
research about Elon musk's new robots
launched in October 2024 which was
launched yesterday um and then what type
of report would you like to uh like me
to generate so we have different options
here we could do summary which is short
and fast um 2 minutes and then detailed
which is in dep then longer 5 minutes
and then research report so just for you
know to test this out to start we can do
short and fast and then we can change
the tone so we could do informative
providing clear and comprehensive
information on topic persuasive we could
have a bunch of different options here
which is pretty nice that it gives you
all these different options a lot of the
other open- source perplexity tools
don't give you options like this so this
is pretty useful are you tired of
pouring thousands of dollars into
appointment Setters only to watch leads
slip away imagine having a team of elite
sales agents booking qualified
appointments for you around the clock no
more wasted time on training no more
frustration with performance and no more
draining your budget on inconsistent and
expensive call centers introducing
stride agents AI powered appointment
Setters that work 24/7 never get tired
and book appointments while you sleep
trained on thousands of successful
conversations our AI agents outperform
human teams at just oneth of the cost
join the ranks of businesses that
doubled their appointments and booking
rates in just a matter of weeks don't
get left behind in the AI Revolution
visit stride agent
now and transform your entire sales
process with cuttingedge AI technology
it's time to accelerate your stride with
AI agents and then what sources would
you like me to research from so you can
use the web um you can also add
documents so please make sure to add the
dock path in the environment variable
pointing to the documents folder so this
is pretty cool as well that you could
actually add your own documents and set
up like your own rag so you could have
your own documents and also do the web
so you could do the just the web which
is kind of like a perplexity search you
could do just your documents which is
pretty much like somewhat of a Rags type
search um and then or you could do a
hybrid approach so you could probably uh
get some pretty interesting results if
you maybe were doing a hybrid approach
you give it some basic context within
your documents some personal uh stuff
that is customed to whatever you're
researching on whether it's something
related to school or a coding project
your business and then you also are
asking at stuff that it would uh want to
search on the web and you can probably
get some pretty custom stuff there so
and then you just click on Research so
we're just going to do the web for now
if I click research we can see thinking
about research questions to ask then
starting the research task and then
using the technology agent right here
okay it's saying it's going to conduct
the research now it's conducting
different research right here all right
getting different sources getting
relevant information
okay now it's actually building out the
research report here so we can see Elon
mus new robots launched in October Robo
van Optimus humanoid robots challenges
and skepticism conclusion references so
we can see all the references here now
cool thing is too we can copy the
clipboard in markdown we can download as
markdown or we can download as PDF or
docks which is pretty cool all right so
now we can do a different one here such
as open ai's new AI AG framework swarm
and I'll probably do some videos on this
too in in very soon um because this is
pretty interesting if you don't know
about that they just dropped that and
pretty it's open source framework for AI
agents and AI swarms so um we're going
to do a detailed in-depth and longer um
report this time and all the uh other
stuff is going to be the same we're just
going to research now okay so we can see
it's generating different queries here
searching different sources all right
getting subtopics here writing
introduction potential applications
future prospects and developments all
right so when you do the long one as
you'll see right here it can actually
get pretty long which is kind of cool um
but it's also like going to use more
tokens so and like I said I'll leave the
docks down below because you can do you
know customize this in different ways
you can set it up with Docker you can
customize with Lang Chang in Vector
stores you can change the llm provider
you can use AMA run everything Loc
change the retrievers multi-step agent
Frameworks a bunch of different stuff so
I think this a pretty cool project they
have over 14,000 stars on GitHub so um
pretty interesting pretty cool all in
all I think it has its strengths and
weaknesses just like all the other open
source perplexity Alternatives do I
think it beats
perplexity I mean I'd probably prefer
perplexity over this but I think this is
definitely it has its own use case and
it kind of like that Powerhouse
researcher and it's great because it's
open source too you can self host it can
change different models um other than
that I think it is really good in terms
of that but when it comes to doing the
research it actually does a pretty good
job all right so that's pretty much it
for this video guys if you're new to the
channel we upload videos every single
day on AI automation business growth
Marketing sales Etc if you like that
type of content then make sure to drop a
like And subscribe to the channel to
stay up to date with the daily uploads
got a couple cool videos coming shortly
guys that I've been working on so stay
tuned for that should be in the next
couple days or so and then if you
haven't already joined the free
community stri community . our free
Facebook group free Discord Channel link
for that will be in the description down
below let me know if you guys have tried
GPT researcher down below or if youve
tried some of the other open source
flexity Alternatives like perplex llm
search all the other different ones I
mentioned and let me know which one is
your favorite or do you just prefer
perplexity and then also too guys if you
run a business and you have leads and
you need AI appointment Setters booking
appointments for you on autopilot then
check out stride agents.com I'll leave a
link down below other than that guys I
will see you in tomorrow's video keep
hustling keep grinding and of course
guys accelerate your stride take care